So let's work on that side
drawer, the side drawer has its own component, here
the side drawer component, we get some basic styling for this container
but now I want to style the side drawer item here.
First of all it should be touchable,
so I need to import touchable something and I'll use touchable opacity, I like that the most.
So I'll add this as a component, touchable opacity and I'll actually wrap a view with it because a view can
be styled, text has very limited styling capabilities,
touchable opacity also closes this and let's move the text inside the view.
Now as a text, I'll say sign out because it should allow the user to guess what, sign out
and I want to use a fitting icon next to it. For that on the ionicons page,
I'm going to search for one, search for log out,
sign out here
and let's use this one here, ios-log-out
and you learned how to add an icon, we just import icon from react-native-vector-icons/ionicons
because that's the font we imported
and now I'm going to add this
icon component here, set a name which is the name I just copied,
set a size so I'm going to go with good old 30 pixels and set a color, maybe a dark gray-ish
look with #bbb.
Let's save that and let's view our result,
here's the icon, looks the way I want it to look,
could be a bit darker even so like maybe #aaa. So it looks good but it's not the same line as the text
and overall, this doesn't look the way I want it to look.
So we need to style this view which holds both icon and text,
we want to
add icon and text the same line and the view uses flex box, so how could we do that?
Well let's first of all create a new property in our stylesheet, I'll name it drawer item because it's
for one item in the drawer and first of all, I'm going to set the flex direction to row because I want
to have these two items next to each other, so I should change it from column which positions them above
each other to row,
let's now bind these to styles
drawer item. With that if we save this and we go back, we immediately see that they're positioned next
to each other,
now vertical alignment would be nice,
so since our main axis now is from left to right, we have to change to cross axis,
so align items should be set to center, that will position them on the center vertically. Now
some spacing would be nice too,
so maybe we add justify content
and set it to space around which leaves some space between the items. Here, they are spacing around but they're taking
a little bit too much width
for my taste,
so maybe we stick to the default which is flex start and instead, we add some margin to the icon and
the text.
So I'm going to add a drawer item icon here and simply add margin right 10 pixels, let's assign the drawer
item icon property here to the drawer,
so let's add style here, styles drawer item
icon, so this line here was added.
Let's save this,
now this looks good.
Now on the drawer item, I also want to have some padding, maybe 10 in all directions so that it doesn't
sit directly on the edge
and then maybe some background so that we add a background color of let's say light gray, this looks
pretty good.
Now I just want to have a little bit more spacing to the top of the drawer
but I also don't want to center it in the middle,
so what I'll do is just increase the padding top of the drawer container to maybe 30 to push it down
a little bit further,
let's maybe go with 50, yeah
that looks good.
So now we can click this,
we got our drawer here,
also on Android it's looking good.
So now we have that sign out button here in place which will come into effect later. With that, the drawer
is finished,
whew,
was a lot of styling.
Now let's see what we can do to adjust our styles for different platforms and dimensions.